# From 0.4 to 0.5

## Important changes

- jQuery has been removed
- Instance management has been removed

## Removing jQuery

You can read more about removing jQuery from your project here: [http://youmightnotneedjquery.com/]()

### Loading SirTrevor.Editor

```
var editor = new SirTrevor.Editor({
  el: $('.sir-trevor')
});
```

#### Will need to change to:

```
var editor = new SirTrevor.Editor({
  el: $('.sir-trevor')[0]
});
```

#### or replace with native functionality:

```
var editor = new SirTrevor.Editor({
  el: document.querySelector('.sir-trevor')
});
```

### Referencing elements

Elements are now native HTMLNode elements rather than jQuery elements.

To deal with this change you'll need to modify your element refernces to not include a starting $ and wrap any elements retrieved in $(element) if you still wish to use jQuery.

### Elements that have changed name

```
# Editor
$outer => outer
$wrapper => wrapper

# Blocks
$editor => editor
$inner => inner
$inputs => inputs
```

### Finding inner elements

If you were using the in-built find syntax on a SirTrevor element you'll need to modify your behaviour.

```
# Before
this.$('.selector') => Array of jQuery elements

# Now
this.$('.selector') => NodeList
this.$('.selector')[0] => Element
```

Also as this returns a NodeList you'll need to update your calls to work on individual elements.

```
# Before
this.$('.selector').hide();

# Now
Array.prototype.forEach.call(this.$('.selector'), function(element) {
  $(element).hide();
}
```

### Event delegation

In your blocks you might be relying on jQuery on/bind/delegate functions. If this is the case you can look at our examples to replicate this functionality in your own code.

```
# src/packages/events.js
element.on(selector, event) => Events.delegate(element, selector, event)
```

### Blocks that include the fetchable mixin

We now use the built in Fetch browser Api for ajax requests.
[https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API]()
We've also included a polyfill for older browsers: [https://github.com/github/fetch]()

When working with a different domain you'll need to bypass cors protection using the following option.

```
this.fetch(url, {jsonp: true})
```

If not using jsonp then the options get passed directly to the fetch function. A list of the available options can be found here [https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request]()

---

## Removing Instance Management

SirTrevorJS no longer keeps a record of all instances within the global object.

If you wish to continue managing instances in the same way you'll want to store references to each editor within your own code and reference them independently.

If you were relying on editor.ID you'll also need to reference the editor instance using your own identifier.

The functions that are no longer available.
```
SirTrevor.getInstance();
SirTrevor.runOnAllInstances();
new SirTrevor.Editor({el: selector}).ID
```

An example of a change would be.

```
# Old
new SirTrevor.Editor({el: selector})

var editor = SirTrevor.getInstance(0);

# New
var editors = [];
editors.push(new SirTrevor.Editor({el: selector}));
editors.push(new SirTrevor.Editor({el: selector}));

var editor = editors[0];

```
